# Calculator
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/SiYxjW5djZI
#### Description: HTML calculator is used for performing basic mathematical operations like Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. A simple Calculator made by HTML, CSS, Javascript. To design the basic calculator, we will use HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. HTML is used to design the basic structure of the calculator. CSS styles are used to apply styles on the calculator and JavaScript is used to add the calculation functionality. Creating a calculator can be a challenging and intricate task, and it is something that many web developers aspire to accomplish during their journey in web development. However, it is possible to create a functional calculator by utilizing HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The calculator consists of the following components Mathematical Operators: Addition (+), Subtraction (-), Multiplication (*), and Division (/). Digits and Decimal Button: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, . . Display Screen: It displays the mathematical expression and the result. Clear Screen Button: It clears all mathematical values. Calculate button (=): It evaluates the mathematical expression and returns the result. To create a working calculator HTML, CSS, and vanilla JavaScript, follow the given steps line by line: Create a folder. You can name this folder whatever you want, and inside this folder, create the mentioned files. Create an index.html file. The file name must be index and its extension .html Create a style.css file. The file name must be style and its extension .css Create a script.js file. The file name must be script and its extension .js Once you create these files, paste the given codes into the specified files. If you don’t want to do these then scroll down and download all the source code files of the Calculator, by clicking on the given download button. Use of HTML: In this program, we are using HTML to create content for the calculator UI; that means we are creating boxes, input fields, buttons, etc. Use of CSS: We are using CSS for managing the content of HTML like the content color, width, height, font size, padding, margin, etc. Use of JavaScript: In a calculator, it is established that there are different buttons and all these buttons have different functions. For example, the + button performs the addition operation, and – performs the subtraction, and it is possible to assign these operations to these buttons using JavaScript. index.html = This is the HTML file for our calculator below. Here, we are using the HTML script to create the content of the calculator UI. We are including the buttons of a calculator, input fields, etc. styles.css = Following is the CSS file for our calculator; we are using CSS for managing the contents of HTML like putting content color, width, height, font size, padding, margin, etc. script.js = The JavaScript file in this program is responsible for performing each operation of the calculator, like arithmetic operations, clearing the input fields, backspace, displaying the output, etc.

